# belly-button-challenge
This challenge is associated with Module 14, javascript. In this repo there are 2 files, `index.html` and `samples.json`, and one folder `static`, which contains `app.js`, all of which were provided from the assignment. All original code written me is in `app.js`. I did not modify `index.html`. This assignment was more challenging than others (for me) and as a result I learned some new things: structure of json file
- display of the metadata card: in order to display each key-value on its own line, I found that appending `('table')` worked even though this tag did not exist in `index.html`! Appending just to `("card-body")`, which was in the html file, or a table row `('tr')` did not prevent each key-value pair from appending to itself making it look like a run-on string. I thought about adding a carriage return to the append, but could not find code for this.
- datatype issue with Plotly: the labels (yticks) of the bars in the bar plot are from the list of OTU-Ids, from which the values are of text type (but appear as integers), were being read as integers when plotted. Converting the values using `.toString()` and verifying with `typeof(value)` did not work. Adding a string to each Id in a `map()` function worked.
- the code for the event listener `onchange="optionChanged(this.value)"` was provided, fortunately, as it was new to me and had not seen it in the html file before (lessons had it as `.on('change')` in the js file).
- I had to review the structure of the data in the `.json` file in order to code. The values of each `sample_value` set was already sorted in descending order, therefore executing a sortingfunction was not needed. Also, the order of the metadata and sample data matched the id data, therefore the index for each list was the same for each id (person). If all of this data was randomly inserted in the `.json` file, more complicated code would have been needed.